Jehovah is a miracle worker.
What's a miracle?
How would you describe it?
Well, let's give a simple definition.
A miracle is a powerful work that can't be explained in human terms.
Whenever Jehovah performs a miracle, he has a purpose.
And one reason might be to strengthen the faith of his servants, and that's the title
of this talk, Jehovah's powerful works inspire faith.
Oh, we love to consider the miracles recorded in the Bible.
It's really faith-strengthening, isn't it?
So during this talk, we're going to consider just a few.
How about this one?
Jehovah leads the Israelites out of Egypt.
They arrive at the Red Sea, and it seems they're trapped.
They seize ahead of them, Pharaoh and his armies are behind.
But Jehovah causes the waters of the Red Sea to part, and the Israelites cross over on
dry land.
When Pharaoh and his armies follow, Jehovah brings a sea back to its normal condition and
the cream of the crop of Egyptian manhood drowns.
Now we know what effect that miracle had on the Egyptians, but what effect did it have
on the Israelites?
Let's see, Exodus chapter 14, and verse 31, I'll give you a moment so you can find
that.
Exodus chapter 14, and verse 31.
It says, Israel also saw the great power that Jehovah wielded against the Egyptians, and
the people began to fear Jehovah and to put faith in Jehovah.
So that miracle inspired faith in the Israelites.
Now they were the only ones who were impressed by that miracle.
That's fast forward, 40 years.
Two spies enter Jericho and go to the house of rehab, the prostitute, and she says to
them, we heard how Jehovah dried up the waters of the Red Sea.
When we heard about it, we lost heart.
But Jehovah, your God is God in the heavens above, and earth and the earth beneath.
Just hearing about that miracle inspired faith in rehab.
Now another person whose faith was strengthened by a powerful work might surprise you, the
queen of Shiba.
Well, the queen of Shiba, what was the powerful work?
Outstanding wisdom.
Queen heard about the wisdom of Solomon, and her curiosity got the better of her.
She just had to see if the report was true, and that involved a 1,200-mile trip from
her country to Jerusalem.
The trip turned out to be well worth the effort.
At the end of the visit, the queen of Shiba sent to Solomon, made Jehovah your God be
praised, who has taken pleasure in you by putting you on the throne of Israel.
She gave credit to Jehovah for what she saw.
Now we don't know if she ever became a worshiper of Jehovah, but Jesus said that she'd rise
up in the judgment and condemn those Jews who wouldn't even cross the street to listen
to the Son of God.
Well those who just two examples, and as you know, there are many more in the Bible.
The Apostle Paul lists some of them, and Hebrews chapter 11, and we're going to read
verses 32 to 34.
Hebrews chapter 11, I'll give you a moment, verses 32 to 34, and I'm going to read verse
32 first.
Hebrews 11, 32, did you got it?
What more will I say?
Your time will fail me if I go on to relate about Gideon, Beirak, Samson, Jeff the David,
as well as Samuel and the other prophets.
Now as I read verses 33 and 34, I want you children to look at the events that are being
described and see if you can guess who was involved, who was the object of this miracle.
So let's read verse 33, it says, through faith, they defended kingdoms, brought about
righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the force of fire,
escaped the edge of the sword.
From a weak state were made powerful, became mighty and war, routed invading armies.
Now let's go back and see if we can identify individuals who were involved in those miracles.
How about defeated kingdoms?
Did you come up with someone?
Let's talk about Gideon.
Now we like Gideon, he reminds us of us.
He wasn't exactly brimming with confidence.
When an angel approached him and indicated that Jehovah had worked for him to do, Gideon
said, my clan is the least emanasa, and I am the most insignificant in my father's
house.
He said something else, something that has a bearing on the theme of our discussion.
He said to the angel, if Jehovah is with us, where are all his wonderful acts that our
father's related to us?
Yes!
Where were the powerful works?
Before he was going to stick his neck out, Gideon wanted some kind of reassurance that
he had Jehovah's blessing.
What to do?
What was the angel going to do?
He performed a powerful work, and that inspired faith in Gideon.
Later, Gideon's confidence was further boosted by three other remarkable signs, two
involving a fleece, and another involving a God-given dream.
Now, with those powerful works in mind and with Jehovah's help, Gideon did the impossible.
With 300 men, he defeated an army of 135,000.
Well, now what's they take away?
What's the lesson for us?
With Jehovah on our side, we are never outnumbered.
Let's go back to verse 33.
Now you children, I'm sure you're going to get this next one.
Verse 33 stopped the mouths of lions.
Who did that?
Well, it was the same one who helped Gideon defeat the Midianites.
It was Jehovah.
Well, what was the circumstance?
Well, you know, it was when Daniel was thrown into the lion's pit.
Now, when Daniel was condemned to die, he didn't know for sure that Jehovah was going
to rescue him, but he knew that Jehovah would do the right thing.
He could have that confidence because Jehovah had been with him throughout his life.
Daniel had been condemned to die once before.
No, wait a minute, let's think about that.
When was that?
Well, it was when the king of Babylon had a dream, and he decreed that unless Daniel and
the other wise men of Babylon could tell him what he dreamed and then relate the meaning
of the dream, they would all be put to death.
That called for a powerful work.
Jehovah provided Daniel with the information he needed, and Daniel's life was saved.
Well, that was Babylon.
Now we're in Persia, and Daniel is once more facing death, death by lion.
Once again, Jehovah comes to the rescue.
He temporarily shuts the mouths of those lions.
Well, we're going to imagine what effect that had on Daniel, but what about us today?
What's the takeaway?
What's the lesson?
Today, Satan is walking about like a roaring lion seeking to devour someone.
We may never know how often Jehovah shuts the mouth of that lion, how often Jehovah
protects his people as a group from Satan.
When we're working from door to door, for example, it's dangerous out there, and we probably
have no idea how busy the angels are in our behalf.
And if someone does lose his life while in Jehovah's service or at a meeting, and it has
happened, his loved ones can be sure of two things.
First of all, their loved one did not lose Jehovah's approval.
And second, the loss is only temporary.
Satan can never do us any lasting harm.
And one day, Jehovah will shut that lion's mouth permanently.
Now, back to Hebrews 11.
And this time, we're reading verse 34, and I'm sure your kids are going to guess this
one, verse 34, quenched the force of fire.
Of course, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.
There were court officials in Babylon, and you'll recall it one day, King Nebuchadnezzar
made a huge image of gold, and demanded that everybody worship it.
Anyone who refused would be thrown into the burning fiery furnace.
Well, that was a time to remember Jehovah's power for works in the past.
And the three men had experienced that probably when they were just teenagers.
Can you think of how?
When they arrived in Babylon, they were taken to the palace for a special training, and
they were told to eat whatever was put in front of them.
In this case, some of the food was prohibited under the Mosaic law.
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego refused to eat those foods, and they asked to be given
vegetables and water instead.
Now for some of you children, just the thought of having to eat vegetables all the time
is probably quite a test.
But now, think of the results of this diet.
After only 10 days, the three young men were in much better health than those who had
followed the King's diet.
Now if you've ever had to follow a diet, you know that there's no way that you can
show improvement in just 10 days.
Jehovah had to have been involved.
Now they were facing death.
They knew their God.
They knew what he was capable of.
They told the King that if it was the will of God, they would be rescued.
But if not, they still wouldn't worship the image of gold.
They knew that if Jehovah chose not to intervene miraculously, it was not a sign of his
disapproval.
Well, you know what happened.
They were thrown into the fiery furnace.
But God sent His angel to protect them.
And when they stepped out of the furnace, there wasn't even the smell of fire on them.
Their integrity also resulted in a great witness.
When the King saw that they were alive and well, he praised Jehovah.
He said, Praise be the God of Shade Rack, Meshach and Abednego.
There is no other God who was able to rescue like this one.
What a witness that does.
Well that's what happened back then.
What's the takeaway?
What's the lesson?
Today, many brothers are facing the heat of adversity.
Russia, for example.
Many brothers have been given long prison sentences because they won't bow down to the
state.
Now, Jehovah doesn't prevent this from happening.
Any more than he prevented Shade Rack, Meshach and Abednego from being thrown into the furnace.
But he does help them.
What do we notice about them as they're being led off to prison?
They're smiling.
They're serene.
They're at peace.
They know their God.
And when they come out, there won't even be the smell of fire on them.
Their faith will be intact.
Their fine conduct also results in a good witness to the jailers and others who hear about
the persecution.
We'll take one more example in verse 34.
Escaped the edge of the sword.
I was thinking of Elisha.
Now in the days of the Prophet Elisha, the King of Syria went to war against Israel and
he called a war council, and the Syrians sequently planned this strategy.
But Jehovah kept telling Elisha what the Syrians were up to, and Elisha kept telling the
King of Israel.
The Syrians were furious, and the King sent a large army to capture Elisha.
What in gratitude?
Why do we say that?
Because in the previous chapter, we read that Elisha had cured the leprosy of Naman,
a chief of the Syrian army, and now a large Syrian army was hunting Elisha down.
We hope Naman wasn't among them.
Finally, the Syrians found the city where Elisha was, and he surrounded it.
Elisha's attendant was scared to death, but Elisha wasn't afraid.
Second King's chapter 6 verses 16 and 17 explains why.
This is encouraging.
Let's look it up.
Second King's chapter 6 verses 16 and 17.
Now this is Elisha talking to his attendant.
Do not be afraid, for there are more who are with us than those who are with them.
Then Elisha began to pray and say, O Jehovah, open his eyes, please, that he may see.
Immediately, Jehovah opened the attendant's eyes and he saw.
And look, the mountainous region was full of horses and more chariots of fire all around
Elisha.
Well, that was a miraculous occurrence that was faith strengthening indeed.
What's the takeaway?
What's the lesson for us?
Well, one day, will we face with hosts of modern day Syrians?
And what's going to help us to remain calm, unafraid?
We'll look heavenward, and with our eyes of faith, we'll see millions of angels and
count all around us.
We know that Jehovah will do the right thing, whatever is in harmony with his will.
I hear you say, I'd like to see a miracle that'd help a lot to strengthen my faith.
We see miracles every day.
What's a miracle?
It's a powerful work that can't be explained in human terms.
Modern example of that is prayer.
Isn't prayer amazing?
Can you explain it?
Jehovah can listen to millions of prayers in any language all at once.
That's a miracle.
But how does prayer build our faith?
When we pray about a problem that nobody but Jehovah knows about and our prayer is answered,
our faith is strengthened.
Now that is powerful.
And what about all the experiences we hear where someone desperately prayed to God?
If you exist, please send someone to teach me about you.
And ten minutes later, a witness knocks on the door.
Coincidence or miracle?
Another miracle, our Christian brotherhood.
Isn't it remarkable?
You can explain it.
Former enemies become fast friends.
You can go to a kingdom hall anywhere in the world and you'll find your brothers and
sisters.
They'll be glad to see you.
You'll feel at ease.
You know what they believe and what they'll be studying at the meetings.
You'll see and feel the love.
In times of ethnic cleansing, how often do we read of brothers and sisters who risk their
lives to hide fellow believers who happen to be from another tribe?
You know, when I think of a loving brotherhood, I always think of the experience Jack Johansson
related in his life story.
Brother Johansson was a missionary serving in Malawi.
At a time when the country was experienced in a tremendous political unrest and violence.
Now he and a young African brother set out to check on the welfare of witnesses in another
part of the country.
But along the way, they encountered a soldier who wasn't friendly.
He said to the African brother, I have to shoot the white man.
He was serious.
As he raised his gun to fire, the young African brother thrust himself between the gunman
and brother Johansson and said, shoot me, shoot me instead.
Well, that soldier was so touched by the love of our young African brother that he put
his gun down.
When you hear experiences like that, it makes you proud to be part of Johovas' organization.
And why is it that Johovas is gathering us into an organization?
There's an interesting detail recorded at Isaiah 43 and verse 10.
I'd like you to look it up.
Now when you hear Isaiah 43 and 10, you say, I know that.
It's about you who are my witnesses, says Johovas.
And that's true, but we're going to focus on another part of the verse.
So Isaiah 43 and verse 10, you are my witnesses, declares Johovas, yes, my servant, whom I
have chosen, now notice this, so that you may know and have faith in me.
Before we can have faith in Johovas, we have to get to know him.
We have to learn about his powerful works.
His past and those present, and as we study his dealings with his people in the past,
we see that Johovas always keeps his promises.
He's promised to bring about a righteous new world, and we could take that promise to
the bank.
And through prayer and association with his organization, we can experience the modern-day
miracles that Johovas is performing.
The more we know about Johovas, the more we'll love him.
The more we love him, the more we'll want to tell others about him.
The more we preach, the stronger our faith will become.
And we will be made powerful by faith.